Add type field to dbt MCP server configuration (#8958)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-ai/setup-remote-mcp.md

    "dbt": {
      "type": "http",
      "url": "https://YOUR_DBT_HOST_URL/api/ai/v1/mcp/",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Token YOUR_DBT_ACCESS_TOKEN",
        "x-dbt-prod-environment-id": "DBT_PROD_ENV_ID",
        "x-dbt-user-id": "DBT_USER_ID",
        "x-dbt-dev-environment-id": "DBT_DEV_ENV_ID"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cursor" label="Cursor">

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "dbt": {
      "url": "https://YOUR_DBT_HOST_URL/api/ai/v1/mcp/",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Token YOUR_DBT_ACCESS_TOKEN",
        "x-dbt-prod-environment-id": "DBT_PROD_ENV_ID",
        "x-dbt-user-id": "DBT_USER_ID",
        "x-dbt-dev-environment-id": "DBT_DEV_ENV_ID"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gemini" label="Gemini">

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "dbt": {
      "httpUrl": "https://YOUR_DBT_HOST_URL/api/ai/v1/mcp/",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Token YOUR_DBT_ACCESS_TOKEN",
        "x-dbt-prod-environment-id": "DBT_PROD_ENV_ID",
        "x-dbt-user-id": "DBT_USER_ID",
        "x-dbt-dev-environment-id": "DBT_DEV_ENV_ID"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note Other clients

> For other MCP clients (Codex, Windsurf, etc.), refer to your client's MCP configuration docs for the correct key format.

Author: ```suggestion
For other MCP clients (Codex, Windsurf, and so on.), refer to your client's MCP configuration docs for the correct key format.
```

> :::

Reviewer: I don't want to increase the scope of this PR - but do want to create an issue for [this](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C08NGJYD563/p1776441521951669?thread_ts=1776388874.257739&cid=C08NGJYD563)! 

It's the idea that Claude Desktop _does not_ respect the same remote MCP config that Claude Code does. The reason why I want to create an issue is there are a few options for workarounds that could be a whole can of worms to get into. 

Let me know what you think!

Author: great shout and will create an issue to track + address this @jairus-m

Author: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/issues/9014
